---
title: Wayne Call 5.27.22
---

### Options for Managing Conflicts

- What would cause someone to handle something indirectly?
- Someone who doesn't like confrontation
- What would cause someone to eventually just end a relationship?
	- Feeling like the relationship isn't working anymore
	- Sometimes it's easier to exit than deal with things

### How often do we set ourselves up for failure in a conversation by starting with something that sets them off?

- You have to allow others the opportunity to succeed in a tough conversations
- Come out from behind yourself, into the conversations, and make it real
- Be here, prepared to be nowhere else
- Obey your instincts
- Take responsibility for your emotional wake
- Let silence do the heavy lifting



### Mineral Rights Model



- Name the issue. "The issue I most need to resolve is..."
- Clarify the issue.
- Determine the current impact
- Determine the future implications
- If nothing changes, what happens down the road?
- Examine your personal contribution to the issue
- Don't take **all** the responsibility, though. Just, "how have I contributed to the problem?"
- Describe the ideal outcome
- Commit to action

**Luis Stuff:**

- Couldn't reach out to Lorena
- Agent sent whole deal to another title company
- Wrote a nice passive aggressive email
- "I feel like I've done a lot for you, for you to just get the file and send it somewhere else."
- The current impact was that this could hurt both their business
- The goal is not to find out who is most wrong, it's to enrich the relationship
- The future impact is that it may become cyclical
- The personal contribution was uncertain, because the initial communication was missed
- Ideally they would come up with a system that works for her requests; maybe scheduling or setting a deadline, a process for requests, expectations for turnaround, or	alternatives and failsafes for when the request is more urgent than usual
- Pick whatever works for the situation and commit to it!